<!--
Title: CSCE 315 at Texas A&M University
Author: Kevin Johnson
Date: May 5th, 2024
  -->

# Contents
- [Contents](#contents)
- [My Experience in CSCE315](#my-experience-in-csce315)
  - [Grading](#grading)
  - [Introduction to the Class](#introduction-to-the-class)
  - [Perusall](#perusall)
  - [Project 1 - Personal Website](#project-1---personal-website)
  - [Project 2 - POS System Using Java GUI Tools](#project-2---pos-system-using-java-gui-tools)
  - [Unit Testing Assignment](#unit-testing-assignment)
  - [Project 3 - POS System On a Web App](#project-3---pos-system-on-a-web-app)
  - [Conclusion](#conclusion)



# My Experience in CSCE315
I am a Computer Engineering at Texas A&M University, and CSCE315/CSCE331 is a fundamental class that all Computer Science and Computer Engineering majors at Texas A&M have to take. For many, it is their first introduction to the world of software development. After learning the fundamentals, in this class, students are exposed to how actual Software Development might look like. Just like Software Engineering in the real world, students are expected to learn a lot really fast, really testing their ability to put a quality product out fast. I will divide this review into the class' different projects and assignments.
## Grading
This class had the most unclear grading ever. In general, the only thing I can really say is that project 3 is weighted a lot heavier than project 2, which is weighted a lot heavier than project 1, which is weighted a lot heavier than all the other assignments. However, getting less than 70% on a category meant 10 points off our whole grade. What is considered a "category", no one knows. Especailly towards the end of project 2, which was near Spring Break for me, it felt like there was some random written evaluation due every 2 days. In addition, they were designed so that in general one could not start on the next assignment unless the previous one is fully complete, which made for situations where I had the Saturday and Sunday of Spring Break to finish a multitude of assignments due that Sunday night. However, I had a flight to Italy that Saturday night, which led to me trying to finish it during the flight, which proved impossible. In general, despite the poor organization of the hundreds of assignments, I still do like this class because of the immense amount of skills I learned despite it, not because of it.
## Introduction to the Class
Before we were given any projects, our Professor took time to talk about the need for the skills we will learned. We quickly learned about the immense complexity in managing a huge codebase. While for many ambitious Computer Science students, concepts like this may be obvious, for many other, these ideas are revolutionary. After some fun in-class activities and introductions, we went into our first project.
## Perusall
Throughout this class, we had 1-3 weekly reading assignments through Perusall, a where we not only read, but also made comments that were judged by an algorithm for effective participation. I am not a fan of this because most of my classmates obviously used AI for the assignments, and so it was extremely frustrating trying to engage in their discussions and comments until I started using AI myself. Our Professor had in-class quizzes that tested our attendance and also our readings, but he was kind enough to bump our grade on these quizzes when we did badly. In addition, these quizzes somethings had extremely misleading questions anyway.
## Project 1 - Personal Website
The first project, while time consuming and filled with annoying requirements, was the simplest of them all. It involved creating a personal portfolio website with two distinct css styles that could be switched back and forth. I put a lot of effort into this website and was frankly surprised by the versatility that I could achieve with simple HTML/CSS/JavaScript. With that being said, I wouldn't necessarily say I learned a lot of skills, however. The biggest skill I learned is CSS. However, I barely even learned this skill due to how accessible tools like ChatGPT have made handling CSS. However, I did learn a lot of tbe finer CSS control so that I can perfect my website since Chat is not that good. I also learned about local storage, which is not that hard, but I guess it is good to know that it exists.
## Project 2 - POS System Using Java GUI Tools
The second project would be our first taste of actual Software Development. This project is a group project, thus I was introduced to my group members here who I had for the rest of the class. Here, I was exposed to databases in general, but in particular relational databases. I learned about the role they play in the modern web. We also used Java GUI builders for this class. I wouldn't say this is a useful skill however, and accordingly I don't even remember the GUI library I used. However, I wrote a lot of the backend functions that interacted with our databse, and so I got a really good idea of Java's quirks and way of doing things becuase as someone who worked with Python extensively and then C++, I never used Java for anything complex.
We also had a lot of discussion regarding the UI/UX of the app - for this project, we focused on creating a Cashier view and a 
In addition the biggest skill I learned here was using git and GitHub to colloborate with other developers. While I've used git before, this project was the first time I seriously used it to build a full-scale project, and I am grateful for that experience.
Working with a group was also a valuable experience, however, I will not discuss the group dynamics here. I will apply the same principle to project 3.
## Unit Testing Assignment
After the second project, we had really the most poorly designed assignment that I might've ever done in college. The gist of it was that we had to design a Java Rational Number Class and create Unit Tests that had close to 100% coverage. This is actually an extremely valuable skill so I am glad that I was given the opportunity to do this, because in the real world, everything is unit tested.
However, that is where all the positives end. In addition to having good test coverage, we also have to pass all pre-written tests. This ended up being a mind reading game, where people relentlessly worked to get the passing score on an assignment that was barely 1% of our grade (we think).
## Project 3 - POS System On a Web App
For the last project, we had to add on to our POS System that we designed in Project 2 by adding a kiosk view and other enhancements to improve accessibility. Coming into this project, I had a very rudimentary understanding of how the different pieces of web come together to form a unified, useful experience that makes people's lives better and easier. However, throughout the project, I learned more and more about the millions of tools that make websites possible. Our group used SvelteKit for the frontend, Express for the backend, and continued to use the same PostgreSQL from Project 2 for the database. Instead of using Waterfall like Project 2, we used Agile principles to organize ourselves.
## Conclusion
Overall, I have a lot of things I did not like a single bit about this class - however, when its all said and done, it gave me a lot of background to get a really good understanding of how information is transferred through the internet. It certainly played a pivotal role in getting my Amazon Internship as well, for which I interviewed for towards the end of my Spring Break. I am also grateful to be privileged enough to go to a college where such practical skills are valued, and I thank Texas A&M for that.